lib/docs/docs/cli.md, before:

# ⌨️ Use from a Command Line Interface

Check, sign, and publish Nanopubs from your terminal using the binary for your platform.

## 📥️ Install

Download the binary adapted to your platform from the repository [Releases page](https://github.com/vemonet/nanopub-rs/releases):

- 🐧 Linux
- 🍎 MacOS
- 🪟 Windows

Rename the binary to `np` (or anything you prefer), and put it in your path.

You can do it easily on Linux, MacOS, and Windows WSL, by using our install script:

```bash
curl -sSL https://raw.github.com/vemonet/nanopub-rs/main/scripts/install-binary.sh | bash
```

## ✍️ Sign

You can define the path to the key pair used for signing in a `profile.yml` which contains the following information:

```yaml title="~/.nanopub/profile.yml"
orcid_id: https://orcid.org/0000-0000-0000-0000
name: Your Name
public_key: /home/user/.nanopub/id_rsa.pub
private_key: /home/user/.nanopub/id_rsa
introduction_nanopub_uri:
```

Sign a Nanopub, by default it will try to use the profile available at `~/.nanopub/profile.yml`

```bash
np sign nanopub.trig
```

Sign a Nanopub, using a specific private key file:

```bash
np sign nanopub.trig -k ~/.nanopub/id_rsa
```

Sign a Nanopub, using a `profile.yml` file:

```bash
np sign nanopub.trig -p ~/.nanopub/profile.yml
```

## 📬️ Publish

Check and publish a signed nanopub, or sign and publish an unsigned nanopub:

```bash
np publish signed.nanopub.trig
```

You can use the same `-p` and `-k` options that are available for the `np sign` command

## 🔎 Check

Check if a signed nanopub is valid. It will check the Trusty hash, and signature based on the public key:

```bash
np check signed.nanopub.trig
```

## ⏭️ Enable completions

You can generate and enable completions for your shell:

- 🪐 ZSH

    ```bash
    np completions zsh > ~/.zsh/completion/np
    source ~/.zsh/completion/np
    ```

- 🥊 Bash

    ```bash
    np completions bash > ~/.bash_completion.d/np
    source ~/.bash_completion.d/np
    ```

- 🐟 Fish

    ```bash
    np completions bash > ~/.config/fish/completions/np
    source ~/.config/fish/completions/np
    ```

> Add the `source` command to your `.zshrc` or `.bashrc` if not already done.

Commit message:

fix: improve handling of keys generated by OpenSSH. Now when instantiating profile from file we generate the public key from the private key instead of reading it from the file

lib/docs/docs/cli.md, after:

# ⌨️ Use from a Command Line Interface

Check, sign, and publish Nanopubs from your terminal using the binary for your platform.

## 📥️ Install

Download the binary adapted to your platform from the repository [Releases page](https://github.com/vemonet/nanopub-rs/releases):

- 🐧 Linux
- 🍎 MacOS
- 🪟 Windows

Rename the binary to `np` (or anything you prefer), and put it in your path.

You can do it easily on Linux, MacOS, and Windows WSL, by using our install script:

```bash
curl -sSL https://raw.github.com/vemonet/nanopub-rs/main/scripts/install-binary.sh | bash
```

## ✍️ Sign

You can define the path to the key pair used for signing in a `profile.yml` which contains the following information:

```yaml title="~/.nanopub/profile.yml"
orcid_id: https://orcid.org/0000-0000-0000-0000
name: Your Name
public_key: /home/user/.nanopub/id_rsa.pub
private_key: /home/user/.nanopub/id_rsa
introduction_nanopub_uri:
```

!!! warning "Generate a key"
    The key needs to be in format `PKCS8`, the default OpenSSH format is not supported. You can generate a key using the following command:

    ```bash
    ssh-keygen -t rsa -m PKCS8 -b 4096 -f ~/.nanopub/id_rsa -C "your@email.com"
    ```

Sign a Nanopub, by default it will try to use the profile available at `~/.nanopub/profile.yml`

```bash
np sign nanopub.trig
```

Sign a Nanopub, using a specific private key file:

```bash
np sign nanopub.trig -k ~/.nanopub/id_rsa
```

Sign a Nanopub, using a `profile.yml` file:

```bash
np sign nanopub.trig -p ~/.nanopub/profile.yml
```

## 📬️ Publish

Check and publish a signed nanopub, or sign and publish an unsigned nanopub:

```bash
np publish signed.nanopub.trig
```

You can use the same `-p` and `-k` options that are available for the `np sign` command

## 🔎 Check

Check if a signed nanopub is valid. It will check the Trusty hash, and signature based on the public key:

```bash
np check signed.nanopub.trig
```

## ⏭️ Enable completions

You can generate and enable completions for your shell:

- 🪐 ZSH

    ```bash
    np completions zsh > ~/.zsh/completion/np
    source ~/.zsh/completion/np
    ```

- 🥊 Bash

    ```bash
    np completions bash > ~/.bash_completion.d/np
    source ~/.bash_completion.d/np
    ```

- 🐟 Fish

    ```bash
    np completions bash > ~/.config/fish/completions/np
    source ~/.config/fish/completions/np
    ```

> Add the `source` command to your `.zshrc` or `.bashrc` if not already done.
